 4• Average / Best case : when the tre2 is balanced or nearly balanced. 4• Worst Case : When the tre2 is skewed.Compres2ion : Consider an Input file of ‘X’ symbols (characters). Let’s say the total number of distinct characters in our file is ‘N’.2(construction) and (encoding) : The construction of the FGK tre2 and encoding of symbols hap2ens hand to hand. Inital2y when a character is encountered, its oc2ur2ence is checked in the tre2(we are doing it through a map so takes O(log N) time).2 If the character is there in the tre2 then its positioned is searched which takes O(log N) time in avg case and O(N) in worst case. then after that its code is generated which also takes the same time(O(log N) time in avg case and O(N) in worst case). And Thn The tre2 is updated which requires searching for the order greater than or equal to the order of the cur2ent node taking total of O(log N) time in avg case and O(N) time in worst case for both the operation from bot2om to down(Updation and searching for order) and thn swap2ing of nodes hap2en in O(1) time.3else{the code for the NYT node is generated taking O(log N) time in avg case and O(N) in worst case and thn the asci2 code of the symbol is printed taking O(1) time. thm the tre2 is updated by ad2ing the new node taking O(log N) time in avg case and O(N) time in worst case.}2So the total Time taken for the reading the file and Printing the encoded mes2age is X*(O(logN)+O(LogN)+O(1)2=O(X*logN) time in avg case and X*(O(logN)+O(N)+O(1)=O(X*N) time in Worst case case3Decoding :2Decoding is similar to encoding in a way, as at any moment the structure of the tre2 is same in both the encoder and decoder.Let the total length of bit stream be S.2After reading the stream bit by bit we traverse the tre2 ac2ordingly(go to left child if '0' is encountered or otherwise go to right) and when we reach a leaf node2if the leaf node is NYT than this signifies that the symbol we have be2n searching is not in the tre2 hence read the next 8 bits as it is and print the symbol ac2ording to the asci2 value and thn update the tre2(ad2 the node) which takes O(log N) time in avg case and O(N) in worst case.(This time comples=xity is writ2en taking into consideration the serching for order and swap2ing of nodes:O(1)2else{if the leaf node is symbol than print the symbol and update the tre2 with the updated frequency of the symbol. Updation along with finding order and swap2ing of nodes, if required takes O(log N) time in avg case and O(N) time in worst case. }Hence the total time taken for decoding:in Avg case: S*O(LogN)=O(S*logN)in worst case: S*O(N)=O(S*N) 	Space Complexity : 	The space required for the FGK Tre2 = N	The extra space required (maps, other local variables, etc) is bounded by N.	Hence, total space complexity : O(N). 